rob bank is here for another personal
effects network 2014 training tour
update this last week I was at a rare
class for this lengthy tour back on the
East Coast in New Jersey what actually
happened was because we're going up to
Alaska coming up very soon to end the
tour I was in the process of getting the
truck upgraded and sort of on standby
after finishing up all the work on the
Pacific Northwest when we normally in
the tour in mid to late july and i flew
back to the east coast for a shooting
industry event called the shooting
industry masters that i see training
company sponsors we had a team there we
had a great time saw a lot of great
people and it gave me the opportunity to
stay on the east coast and do a two-day
combat focus shooting course at a new
facility called shooters the shooters is
a world-class retail store fully stocked
firearm section outdoor store beautiful
building and a great two section in nor
rain and of course they're interested as
any facility is in providing defensive
training to their customers it's
important to note that this is happening
in New Jersey they have an incredible
firearm selection they've got a lot of
customers they've got a lot of members
and a very busy range and we had a great
class full of law enforcement and people
interested in home defense and personal
defense firearm skills what I wanted to
do is take a minute to talk to someone
who works in a retail environment in the
state of New Jersey this was her first
defensive shooting class even though
she's been in the industry for five or
six years and let her talk a little bit
about her experiences in the class as a
woman and the kinds of things that she
deals with when people come into the
store looking for a handgun for their
first defensive purchase in what is
generally seen as a very restrictive
state now I've been very clear and on
the record over many years that I think
it's important that we as a firearms
community support the legal firearms
owners fighting the good fight in the
more oppressed areas when we can't all
be in Texas in Arizona and Alaska and
all the pro-gun states all the time and
certainly not all Americans live in
great states as far as handguns
ownerships firearms ownership concealed
carry permits and the right and
responsibilities they have to defend
themselves we need to be able to support
those who are in the states like New
York like California like New Jersey
just this week the federal courts handed
down a decision that the District of
Columbia
the last jurisdiction inside of the u.s.
that still outright bans the carry of
firearms for defensive purposes must
change their policy so we had Illinois
the last state that was a holdout fall
in the past few months we had a great
federal decision on the state of
California situation mandating that it
basically becoming easier for people to
get concealed carry permits statewide
and now we're seeing the District of
Columbia also be forced not only to
recognize those people who live in
Washington DC's right to carry a firearm
for defense but also it was very clearly
stated that they may not restrict the
opportunity for people who are
non-residents of Washington DC to carry
in Washington DC so this is a huge
victory for people you know there's so
much awesome stuff inside of washington
DC the smithsonian all the monuments are
there are great reasons to go there but
there are a lot of people who have said
i will never set foot in washington DC
our country's capital simply because
they can't carry a firearm to defend
themselves and their families and quite
frankly I think that's a shame I'm
looking forward these changes in this
continuing evolution and we've seen over
the last 20 years moving in the right
direction for people's rights and the
responsibility I feel they have to be
able to defend themselves and be
prepared to defend themselves in the
public space as well as in their home of
course we'd love to see the laws relax a
little bit in New Jersey as well and do
a little bit more training like we did
this past week so now without any
further conversation let's go ahead and
hear what Janine has to say about her
experiences as a woman in a combat focus
shooting course as part of the personal
defense Network training tour and her
experiences dealing with people coming
in to buy their first guns at her local
gun shop in a restrictive firearm state
I sell firearms at a gun store in New
Jersey we often see a lot of new
shooters come in more often than a lot
of new women coming in to start in the
shooting square interests a lot of women
have been coming in have been home
protection use of force in the home if
they need to god forbid their home alone
and there
not home or if they're single women
living at home they want to be able to
protect themselves and not feel helpless
a lot of the questions women have
nowadays is what gun is going to be best
for them a lot of women come in with
that understanding that they want a
small pistol a lot of them don't
understand that a smaller crystals going
to have a lot of a lot more recoil for
them so we try to educate them a little
bit more they're new to shooting in
general we often recommend a beginners
course to learn about the gun today i'm
here at shooters taking this course to
improve upon my personal defense
self-defense my skills though I've been
a shooter for 20 years it's been more of
target shooting less of a defensive type
situation bid again I would need to do
something defensive in the home I want
to have that skill and that knowledge of
how to protect my family what I've
gotten out of this course today is a lot
I've learned a lot of new knowledge that
I didn't even know existed to improve
upon myself my weaknesses and how to
approve improve upon my weaknesses was
hesitant at first I had a lot of
reservations about taking this course
one I was thinking it might be all guys
how comfortable will Maggie you know
with a woman in their class but I'd
rather deal with that comfortableness
then have to maybe take a course with
all women where the class is geared down
towards women a little bit more I want
to be able to do it where it's not
gender specific if it could be just
gender neutral women's only classes tend
to be a little bit more taut maybe a
little bit more condescending towards
the women I want to be treated like
everyone else everyone should be taught
the same not necessarily just because
we're women doesn't mean that we can't
handle the guns the same we should be
able to handle the situation the same as
men Dukes I've gained a lot of
confidence I'm glad that I I pushed back
those reservations that I had as far as
maybe not taking the course because it
was going to be all men I think that
having the diversity in the class means
I was able to learn say from the
mistakes that others were made having
worked in the firearms industry for
about almost six years now I would
recommend to any woman shooter coming in
for the first time to find a gun that
they're comfortable with using and then
take a course similar to what I'm taking
today